{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2870
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\vieww23380\viewh13600\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs38 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This repository provides guidelines and workflows for processing data collected from the French Meadows Dolly eddy-covariance tower system. The tower consists of two primary data acquisition systems:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1	}1. A Campbell Scientific CR1000X system maintained by Dr. Holly Oldroyd\'92s group, which includes four IRGASON sonic anemometer/IRGA systems, one EE181, and one CNR4.\
{\listtext	2	}2. A LI-COR system maintained by the Pepperwood team, equipped with a Gill WindMaster Pro sonic anemometer, a LI-7500DS, one NR01, and three slow-response aspirated HMPs.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The two systems differ in sampling frequency, file structure, and variable formatting. The IRGASON systems operate at 20 Hz during summer deployments and 10 Hz during other periods, whereas the LI-COR system continuously records at 10 Hz. In addition, the systems use different variable names, units, and output file organizations.\
Due to these differences, the datasets are processed separately. The general workflow consists of:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Initial data format conversion and unzipment for each system\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Preprocessing into formats that are compatible with UTESpac package\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Quality control, spike removal, planar-fit rotation, and turbulence calculations using the UTESpac package\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Additional information regarding the French Meadows field campaign, including instrumentation details and the downslope tower configuration, can be found in:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs40 \cf0 /Lab Library/French Meadows/Summer2025/doc/French_Meadows_Summer2025.docx\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs38 \cf0 \
\'97\'97\'97\'97\'97*****Step I: Initial data format conversion*****\'97\'97\'97\'97\'97\
1. Convert field collected raw data (e.g., '/Lab Library/French Meadows/Summer2025/data/20251110_tall') into ascii format using PC400 under the same folder.\
2. Run '/Lab Library/French Meadows/processing/input/formatting_code/FM_1min_data_process.py' to unzip the LICOR raw 1-min data and then reads data from both systems and stores into daily file for further analysis. The code already includes information how to run it with sequential steps.\
\
\'97\'97\'97\'97\'97*****Step II: Preprocessing into formats for UTESpac*****\'97\'97\'97\'97\'97\
1. Run '/Users/diane_wt/Library/CloudStorage/Box-Box/Lab Library/French Meadows/processing/UTESpac_Python/raw_processing/FM_FastNSlow_4IRGA_process.py' to prepare formatted data from IRGASON systems for UTESpac. This code processes 1-min slow-response and 20-Hz fast-response data respectively into 48-h files, and they are used as input files in the UTESpac package. Alternatively, '/Users/diane_wt/Library/CloudStorage/Box-Box/Lab Library/French Meadows/processing/UTESpac_Python/raw_processing/FM_Fast_4IRGA_process.py' only formats high-frequency IRGASON data and sonic temperatures will be used in UTESpac.\
2. Run '/Users/diane_wt/Library/CloudStorage/Box-Box/Lab Library/French Meadows/processing/UTESpac_Python/raw_processing/FM_FastNSlow_1Gill_process.py' to unzip the LICOR raw 10-Hz data and then prepare similar formats for UTESpac.\
3. '/Users/diane_wt/Library/CloudStorage/Box-Box/Lab Library/French Meadows/processing/UTESpac_Python/raw_processing/FM_DSfast_data_process.py' is the code to process the two Young sonics data at the Downslope tower.\
\
\'97\'97\'97\'97\'97*****Step III: Run UTESpac*****\'97\'97\'97\'97\'97\
The UTESpac package (https://github.com/Diane1306/UTESpac_Plus.git) already writes instructions how to run it, here are the main steps to run the package with correctly formatted data.\
1. Create a site folder (e.g., siteIRGA, siteGill). The site folder should contain formatted input data with correct table names (e.g., FMDOL_20Hz_20250901000000_20250903000000.txt), table header that describes the data (e.g., FMDOL_20Hz_header.dat), a siteinfo.m that include all necessary information to run the code, and an empty output folder.\
2. In the UTESpac.m code, there are options that the user can change for data processing. The main thing is that a \'93local\'94 planar fit should be ran first for each data table before running in a \'93global\'94 mode. The local planar fit is like a 30-min planar fit correction (NOT sector-wise). By contrast, the global planar fit first gives the user options to select wind direction bins for sector-wise PF and options to split date ranges for analysis, and then run the sector-wise PF across the dataset. If no date ranges are splitted, one \'93global\'94 PF coefficients applies across all dates for each wind sector.}